---
title: Our Q2 2026 adaptive wealthtech release
url: https://www.envestnet.com/product-release/our-q2-2026-adaptive-wealthtech-release
date: '2026-05-15'
author: kevin.mesquita
feed_url: https://envestnet.com/rss.xml
---
Our Q2 2026 adaptive wealthtech release Display Author Envestnet, Inc. kevin.mesquita Fri, 05/15/2026 - 10:22 As we continue to invest aggressively in our technology, our releases tell a story of momentum, scalability, configurability, and the delivery of actionable insights across the Envestnet Wealth Management Platform. The second release of 2026 is designed to meet advisors in the moment and streamline wealth management. Our releases reflect direct feedback from the advisor and home office users and addresses pain points related to operational efficiency, driving forward-looking innovation. These enhancements across our platform come together to empower advisors to make smart decisions throughout every step of a client's financial life. Take a look at a few of the new features below. Automated systematic harvesting for taxable accounts Set up, monitor, and manage automated tax gain/loss harvesting directly from proposals through to implementation. We’re introducing a systematic harvesting capability that lets you configure and maintain tax loss and gain harvesting rules and thresholds for taxable accounts. The Envestnet Wealth Management Platform continuously monitors account activity and generates a Harvest Service Request (SR) when the thresholds are met. You can set harvesting rules with defined threshold amounts in a new proposal or through a strategy modification as follows: Setting Description Task The platform generates this service request when the Threshold Amount is met. Threshold Amount The account’s available unrealized gain or loss amount that will trigger a harvest.
The available unrealized gain or loss amount excludes lots that can’t be harvested due to portfolio constraints. Maximize Gain/Loss If the gain or loss meets or exceeds the Threshold Amount, this setting lets the platform harvest the entire amount available, not necessarily stopping at the dollar amount you set as the threshold. Buy REPL ETF If your firm supports this feature, this setting lets the platform invest harvested tax losses in a default harvest replacement during a wash sale period. We’re providing new features to track your implementation of systematic harvesting: A filter on the Gain/Loss page lets you see accounts with systematic harvesting enabled and understand when available unrealized gain/loss is close to your configured threshold. The Systematic Harvest Configuration tab of the account lets you see and optionally update or remove thresholds. Account alerts when the platform creates a service request for systematic harvesting. Systematic harvesting helps you improve after‑tax outcomes and scale tax management by automatically monitoring taxable accounts and generating harvest requests when predefined thresholds are met, reducing the need for your constant manual review. You’ll remain actively involved by setting the rules up front and monitoring alerts, account views, and generated service requests to ensure harvesting activity continues to align with client goals and market conditions. Integrate MoneyGuide into proposal workflows and client records Bring planning insights and external CRM data directly into proposal and account workflows. If your firm uses MoneyGuide, it plays a key role in helping you deliver financial planning solutions to your clients. Previously, the integration offered convenient launch points between platforms but didn’t fully leverage plan data in the Envestnet Wealth Management Platform. With this release, you can surface planning data from MoneyGuide directly in your proposal workflows, new ISP documents, and client records. These integration enhancements appear across the following key areas. MoneyGuide to Proposal workflow When you initiate a proposal from a MoneyGuide plan, you can now: Review and refine the client’s plan risk information . The proposal risk auto-populates from the MoneyGuide plan. If your firm configures other risk assessment methods, you can optionally change the MoneyGuide risk. Incorporate held‑away accounts from the MoneyGuide plan. Held-away accounts added to the MoneyGuide plan will auto-populate in the proposal as Existing accounts. The holistic portfolio feature is enabled by default, with the option to disable it. Use it to include a comprehensive view of the entire MoneyGuide plan in the proposal. New Investment Strategy Proposal (ISP) document For new Investment Strategy Proposal (ISP) documents, you can optionally include the Financial Planning Summary if your client has a MoneyGuide financial plan. This summary draws from MoneyGuide snapshot data, such as probability of success, net worth, goals, and other firm-configured modules. When enabled and a client has an active MoneyGuidePro plan, the Envestnet Wealth Management Platform automatically displays a financial plan tab on their client record. From here, you can review a snapshot of the plan with key details such as goals, net worth, probability of success, asset allocation, and more, depending on your firm’s configured snapshot data. These enhancements transform the way you deliver financial planning by bringing MoneyGuide data directly into your daily workflows. Now, you can instantly access and leverage plan details to drive smarter proposal decisions that reflect the full client picture—including held-away accounts—and seamlessly move between planning and proposal tasks. This not only saves time but also enables more thorough, transparent conversations, ensuring you never miss critical information that could impact your clients’ outcomes. Create custom ISP pages with firm approval Customize how strategies are presented—within firm-approved guardrails. The new Investment Strategy Proposal (ISP) document offers customization capabilities that allow you and your firm to tailor a proposal to your needs. Previously, only sponsors could create custom ISP pages, which limited how much advisors could personalize content for their own client conversations. Now, advisors can create and add custom pages to the new Investment Strategy Proposal (ISP) document, offering greater control and customization over strategy presentation. To support compliance and administrative workflows, firms can designate sponsors to review and approve advisor content before publication. With this release, advisors and sponsors will benefit from the following custom ISP page enhancements: Advisors create custom pages . Use new ISP Custom Pages to create personalized ISP pages that align with your messaging. You can choose to upload PDF documents from scratch or create pages with the help of our User Guide or PowerPoint template. Sponsors review and approve custom pages. Use New ISP Custom Pages to review and approve custom pages that advisors submit for publication. You can publish or reject pages in accordance with your firm's guidelines. Custom ISP pages let you add personalized biographies, firm‑branded materials, educational content, and other materials that help you communicate your value more clearly.  This flexibility empowers advisors to tailor proposals to client needs while enabling sponsors to maintain oversight and ensure all content meets firm standards. Enhanced dashboard creation and management experience Surface the insights that matter, without extra navigation. For those of you familiar with the Wealth Data Platform and its Insights dashboards, you know the power of having the right data, organized as you want it, when you need it. With this enhancement, we've brought the Wealth Data Platform desktop and widget experience into the new dashboard configuration tool. In the past, accessing these features and managing Envestnet dashboards required a lengthy process spanning several different site locations. Now, you access the entire dashboard creation and management experience from a single location. The new Envestnet dashboard configuration tool lets you create and manage: Dashboards . Create, rename, duplicate, or delete dashboards—just like in Insights. Use filters to manage clients included in the active dashboard. Widgets . Add, update, or remove widgets from your active dashboard. This streamlined experience helps you build dashboards on the Envestnet platform that match your workflow, making it easier to surface the analytics and insights that matter most. Whether you want client‑level views, firm‑wide analytics, or a combination of widgets arranged to match your daily tasks, these tools allow you to assemble a dashboard that supports deeper analysis and more efficient monitoring of your book of business. Adaptive wealthtech that evolves with advisors Our mission is to deliver the tools and insights advisors need to deliver superior outcomes for their clients, and our quarterly technology updates are a vital component of achieving this goal. This release demonstrates the ongoing evolution of our platform, designed not only to support today’s workflows but also to anticipate the needs of tomorrow’s clients and their advisors. Dive deeper into the enhancements of our second release of 2026 and how Envestnet’s adaptive wealthtech helps advisors meet the moment with its comprehensive technology, insights, and industry-leading support. Image The information, analysis and opinions expressed herein are for informational purposes only and do not necessarily reflect the views of Envestnet. These views reflect the judgment of the author as of the date of writing and are subject to change at any time without notice. Nothing contained in this piece is intended to constitute legal, tax, accounting, securities, or investment advice, nor an opinion regarding the appropriateness of any investment, nor a solicitation of any type. The services and materials described herein are provided on an ´as is´ and ´as available´ basis, with all faults. The graphical illustrations herein do not represent client information or actual investments. Nothing contained herein is intended to constitute legal, tax, accounting, securities, or investment advice, nor an opinion regarding the appropriateness of any investment, nor a solicitation of any type. Envestnet disclaims all warranties, express or implied, including, without limitation, warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose, title, non-infringement or compatibility. 20260514-5490506 FOR INVESTMENT PROFESSIONAL USE ONLY ©2026 Envestnet, Inc. All rights reserved. Our Q2 2026 release: Accelerating the future of Adaptive WealthTech. Published Date Mon, 05/18/2026 - 12:00 Transparent Navigation 1
